FOLKS, MY NEXT GUEST
SHOCKED THE DEMOCRATIC PARTY
WITH HER PRIMARY VICTORY ON
TUESDAY NIGHT.
SHE'S NOW ON TRACK TO BECOME THE
YOUNGEST CONGRESSWOMAN IN
HISTORY.
PLEASE WELCOME, ALEXANDRIA
OCASIO-CORTEZ!
( CHEERS AND APPLAUSE )
( BAND PLAYING )
>> Stephen: WELCOME TO THE
SHOW.
I WANT TO CONFESS THAT I DID NOT
KNOW YOUR NAME ON MONDAY.
>> MOST PEOPLE DIDN'T.
>> Stephen: BUT WHAT IS IT
LIKE FOR YOU?
BECAUSE THIS IS YOUR FIRST
ELECTION.
>> YEAH.
>> Stephen: YOU UNSEATED A
TEN-TERM CONGRESSMAN, CROWLEY,
WHO MANY PEOPLE HAD THROWN OUT
HIS NAME AS THE POSSIBLE HEIR
APPARENT FOR NANC NANCY PELOSI.
THREE WEEKS BEFORE THE ELECTION
THE POLLS SHOWED YOU 36 POINTS
BEHIND HIM AND YOU WON BY 15
POINTS.
( CHEERS AND APPLAUSE )
THAT'S A 51 --
>> YEAH.
>> Stephen: OBVIOUSLY, YOU'RE
A VERY CAPABLE, INTELLIGENT
PERSON.
WHY DO YOU THINK YOU WERE ABLE
TO SWING 51 POINTS IN THREE
WEEKS AND UNSEAT THIS MAN WHO
HAD BEEN THERE 20 YEARS?
>> I THINK THE FIRST THING TO
KIND OF MENTION IS I DON'T THINK
POLLING IS ALWAYS RIGHT.
>> Stephen: WE LEARNED THAT IN
2016.
>> POLLING -- HERE'S THE BIG
THING, POLLING -- PEOPLE TRY TO
IDENTIFY WHO'S THE MOST LIKELY
PERSON TO TURN OUT, AND WHAT WE
DID IS WE CHANGED WHO TURNS OUT,
AND THAT CHANGES THE WHOLE
ELECTION.
( APPLAUSE )
>> Stephen: WELL, WHO DOESN'T
TURN OUT, ESPECIALLY FOR
DEMOCRATIC PRIMARIES, AND WHO
TURNED OUT FO FOR YOU?
WHO ARE YOUR CONSTITUENTS?
>> WELL, I TELL YOU ONE THING,
WE WERE ABOUT EIGHT MINUTES TILL
THE POLLS WERE CLOSING AND I WAS
IN MY HOME NEIGHBORHOOD IN THE
BRONX, AND THESE TWO YOUNG,
TEENAGE LOOKING KIDS CAME UP TO
ME AND SAID WE JUST VOTED FOR
YOU!
AND I WAS, LIKE, HOW OLD ARE
YOU?
THEY WERE, LIKE, 19.
I WAS, LIKE, 19 YEARS OLD VOTING
IN AN OFF-YEAR MIDTERM PRIMARY
ELECTION?
( CHEERS AND APPLAUSE )
>> Stephen: WHAT IS GOING
THROUGH YOUR HEAD?
I'LL SHOW YOU THIS CLIP HERE.
WE HAVE A CLIP OF THE MOMENT YOU
FOUND OUT YOU WON.
WE DON'T HAVE THE SOUND ON THIS.
THERE YOU ARE.
WHAT'S HAPPENING?
WHAT'S GOING THROUGH YOUR MIND
AT THAT MOMENT?
>> IT WAS SO CRAZY BECAUSE I HAD
NOT CHECKED ANY OF THE POLLS.
IN THE CAR ON THE WAY TO THIS
PARTY TO THE WATCH PARTY, IT WAS
LIKE AN OLD BILL YARDS HALL TO
THE BRONX.
I HADN'T CHECKED ANY OF THE
POLLS IN MY PHONE AND WE GET OUT
AND I GO, OH, MY GOD, OUTSIDE,
BECAUSE I SEE ALL OF THESE
REPORTERS, LIKE, RUNNING TO THE
WATCH PARTY AND, LIKE, NOBODY
WAS THERE.
IT WAS OUR VOLUNTEERS AND
ORGANIZERS AND SUPPORTERS.
>> Stephen: IF YOU SEE
SUPPORTERS RUNNING TOWARD YOU,
IT COULD BE VERY GOOD OR VERY
BAD.
( LAUGHTER )
>> EXACTLY.
I'M RACING THE REPORTERS INTO
THE BILL YARDS HALL.
I RUN INSIDE, RUN IN TO THE TV
SET, I LOOK UP, I SEE THE MARGIN
AND THE AMOUNT OF PRECINCTS
REPORTING AND THAT'S HOW I FOUND
OUT WE WON THE ELECTION RIGHT
THERE IN THAT MOMENT.
>> Stephen: NOW, YOU HAVE A
GOOD SHOT BECAUSE AS MAJORITY
DEMOCRATIC DISTRICT, SO THERE'S
A GOOD SHOT YOU WILL GO TO
CONGRESS, WHILE NOT GUARANTEED.
YOU SAID BECAUSE YOU WERE IN
HOSPITALITY, YOU MIGHT BE ABLE
TO GET PEOPLE TO BE ON BOARD
WITH YOUR AGENDA.
WHAT IS YOUR AGENDA, BECAUSE YOU
DESCRIBE YOURSELF AS A
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST, AND THAT'S
NOT AN EASY TERM FOR A LOT OF
AMERICANS.
WHAT DOES SOCIALIST MEAN FOR
YOU?
>> FOR ME, DEMOCRATIC SOCIALISM
IS ABOUT REALLY THE VALUE FOR ME
IS THAT I BELIEVE THAT, IN A
MODERN, MORAL AND WEALTHY
SOCIETY, NO PERSON IN AMERICA
SHOULD BE TOO POOR TO LIVE.
( APPLAUSE )
>> Stephen: SEEMS SIMPLE.
EEMS PRETTY SIMPLE.
SO WHAT THAT MEANS TO ME IS
HEALTH CARE AS A HUMAN RIGHT.
( APPLAUSE )
IT MEANS EVERY CHILD, NO MATTER
WHERE YOU ARE BORN SHOULD HAVE
ACCESS TO A COLLEGE OR TRADE
SCHOOL EDUCATION IF THEY SO
CHOOSE.
( APPLAUSE )
I THINK NO PERSON SHOULD BE
HOMELESS, IF WE CAN HAVE PUBLIC
STRUCTURES AND PUBLIC POLICIES
TO ALLOW FOR PEOPLE TO HAVE
HOMES AND FOOD AND LEAD A
DIGNIFIED LIFE IN THE UNITED
STATES.
( CHEERS AND APPLAUSE )
>> Stephen: WELL, THOSE ALL
SEEM LIKE VERY WORTHY GOALS, YOU
MAY GET A LITTLE RESISTANCE FROM
DONALD TRUMP BECAUSE HE SAID IN
ONE OF HIS TWEETS, HE SAID, WOW,
BIG TRUMP HATER CONGRESSMAN JOE
CROWLEY WHO MANY EXPECTED WAS
GOING TO TAKE NANCY PELOSI'S
PLACE JUST LOST HIS PRIMARY
ELECTION, IN OTHER WORDS HE'S
OUT, THAT'S A BIG ONE NOBODY SAW
HAPPENING.
PERHAPS HE SHOULD HAVE BEEN
NICER AND MORE RESPECTFUL TO HIS
PRESIDENT.
SO I ASK YOU, ALEXANDRIA
OCASIO-CORTEZ --
>> YEAH.
>> Stephen: -- ARE YOU GOING
TO BE NICER TO THE PRESIDENT?
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, THE PRESIDENT
IS FROM QUEENS AND WITH ALL DUE
RESPECT HALF OF MY CONSTITUENCY
IS FROM THE QUEENS.
I DON'T THINK HE KNOWS HOW TO
DEAL WITH A GIRL FROM THE BRONX.
>> Stephen: THANK YOU SO MUCH.
ALEXANDRIA OCASIO-CORTEZ,
EVERYBODY!
WE'LL BE RIGHT BACK!